Create Blog Post “add-video-chat-to-your-firebase-app-with-a-few-steps” (#2302)
Nexmo/deved-platform: content/blog/en/add-video-chat-to-your-firebase-app-with-a-few-steps.md

---
title: Add Video Chat to Your Firebase App With a Few Steps
description: Learn how you can add multiparty video chats to your Firebase
  application using the Vonage Video Express extension.
author: dwanehemmings
published: true
published_at: 2022-11-23T21:54:32.371Z
updated_at: 2022-11-23T21:54:32.411Z
category: announcement
tags:
  - video
  - firebase
  - extension
comments: true
spotlight: false
redirect: ""
canonical: ""
outdated: false
replacement_url: ""
---
# Video Express?

> [Video Express](https://tokbox.com/developer/video-express/) was built on top of the Vonage Video API to help make creating a multiparty video conference application quicker. This JavaScript library abstracts some of the nitty-gritty details such as keeping track of publishers and subscribers along with optimizations into a “room”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Video Express](https://tokbox.com/developer/video-express/) was built on top of the Vonage Video API to help create a multiparty video conference application more quickly. This JavaScript library abstracts some nitty-gritty details, such as keeping track of publishers and subscribers and optimizations into a “room.”
```

Reviewer 2: I was trying to say it abstracts stuff like:
- keeping track of publishers and subscribers
- applying optimizations

Like 2 different things. How could we word that?

Reviewer: how about this

[Video Express](https://tokbox.com/developer/video-express/) was built on top of the Vonage Video API to help quickly create a multiparty video conference application. This JavaScript library abstracts some nitty-gritty details, such as keeping track of publishers and subscribers, and applies optimizations into a “room.”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Video Express](https://tokbox.com/developer/video-express/) was built on top of the Vonage Video API to help quickly create a multiparty video conference application. This JavaScript library abstracts some nitty-gritty details, such as keeping track of publishers and subscribers, and applies optimizations into a “room.”
```

How's this?

# Firebase?

> [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) is an app development platform offering services like hosting, authentication, real-time databases, analytics, and many more. It is backed by the Google Cloud Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) is an app development platform that offers hosting, authentication, real-time databases, analytics, and many more services. It is developed by Google and part of the Google Cloud Platform.
```

Reviewer 2: On the site: https://firebase.google.com/ it says "Backed by Google" so that's why I used that wording. Firebase is like a layer on top of Google Cloud Platform. Not sure if that's the same thing as being "a part" of GCP. Like there's a different site that you log into to use Firebase. Expect for checking logs (a recent change), you never go to GCP console. What do you think?

Reviewer: Yeah, I noticed that on the site it just calls out Google (not GCP). So maybe this should just say "It is backed by Google" then.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) is an app development platform offering services like hosting, authentication, real-time databases, analytics, and many more. It is backed by Google.
```
Not sure how to commit the suggestion

# Firebase x Vonage Video Express extension?

> Firebase announced [Extensions](https://extensions.dev/) which help developers "build an app quickly and easily". Vonage Video Express also wants to shorten the time it takes to add video chat to an application. So we created and released an [extension](https://extensions.dev/extensions/vonage/firestore-vonage-video-express).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firebase announced [Extensions](https://extensions.dev/) that help developers "build an app quickly and easily." Vonage Video Express also wants to shorten the time it takes to add video chat to an application. So we created and released an [extension](https://extensions.dev/extensions/vonage/firestore-vonage-video-express).
```

# How it works.

After installing the extension in a Firebase application, when a developer creates a room in Cloud Firestore, the extension will use Cloud Functions to generate the credentials needed to participate in the video chat via Vonage Video Express.

# Getting Started.  

> On the Vonage side, you’ll need to have an account, and a project, and enable the Video Express add-on. Details can be found in the [Video Express documentation](https://tokbox.com/developer/video-express/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Vonage side, you’ll need to have an account and a project and enable the Video Express add-on. For information on how to do this, please consult the [Video Express documentation](https://tokbox.com/developer/video-express/)
```

Reviewer: Love it!

> For Firebase, an account and project will also be required. In that project, both Cloud Functions and Cloud Firestore must be enabled.

Reviewer: Suggestion: Maybe a link to the Cloud Functions and Cloud Firestone project page would help.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Firebase, an account and project will also be required. In that project, both [Cloud Functions](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/functions) and [Cloud Firestore](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/firestore) must be enabled.
```

Yeah, I forgot to add that. Thanks. How does that look?

Reviewer: Even better!

There are a couple of ways to start the installation of the [Vonage Video Express extension](https://extensions.dev/extensions/vonage/firestore-vonage-video-express).

Using the Firebase CLI, in your Firebase project directory, run the following:

```
firebase ext:install vonage/firestore-vonage-video-express --project=projectId_or_alias
```

By following this link to the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/extensions/install?ref=vonage/firestore-vonage-video-express), you’ll be able to select the project you want to install the extension.

> Next, you’ll enter some information (selecting deployment location, Vonage credentials, etc) and accept some terms to set up the extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you’ll enter some information (selecting deployment location, Vonage credentials, etc.) and accept some terms to set up the extension.
```

Then the extension will start installing into the project. That’s it!

# But wait... There’s more!

> We also include a [sample application](https://github.com/Vonage/vonage-firebase-extensions/tree/main/demos) to demonstrate the extension in action. There’s a link under the “How this extension works” tab of the extension’s page to test it out in your project. Just enter the config object and it’s up and running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also include a [sample application](https://github.com/Vonage/vonage-firebase-extensions/tree/main/demos) to demonstrate the extension in action. There’s a link under the “How this extension works” tab of the extension’s page to test it out in your project. Just enter the config object, and it’s up and running.
```

# Giving it a try?

> As always, we welcome any questions, comments, and feedback. Definitely want to hear about your experience with the extension. Feel free to post in our [Community Slack Channel](https://developer.vonage.com/community/slack). If you are on Twitter, follow the [VonageDev](https://twitter.com/vonagedev) account to get the latest updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As always, we welcome any questions, comments, and feedback. I want to hear about your experience with the extension. Feel free to post in our [Community Slack Channel](https://developer.vonage.com/community/slack). If you are on Twitter, follow the [VonageDev](https://twitter.com/vonagedev) account to get the latest updates.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As always, we welcome any questions, comments, and feedback. We want to hear about your experience with the extension. Feel free to post in our [Community Slack Channel](https://developer.vonage.com/community/slack). If you are on Twitter, follow the [VonageDev](https://twitter.com/vonagedev) account to receive the latest updates.
```
How about this since it says "we welcome" in the previous sentence?

Reviewer: Good point! Love it!
